Ni.txt is an example event list file for CXRS.

CXRS Manual.

0. Syntax of the event list file.

There are two parts in the event list file. The first part gives the default
option values. They start with #OptionName. Note that there should be no
space between "#" and "OptionName". 

The second part gives a list of event files. The first column is the event file 
names. second is a number to specify how many histograms to generate per event 
file, normally 1. Third and fourth columns give the starting and ending EbitPhase 
of the valid data. Events fall outside the range are not included in the 
calibration processes. Use both 0.0 numbers to include all EbitPhase. The fifth 
column is the numerical filter flag. "0" means keeping only perfect events. 
The last column is optional, which specifies a general filter, using boolean 
expressions. It can also use expression such as "UTime ? Volts", to bring an ISIS 
window with UTime-Volts plot, and use the mouse to select regions. If the line 
becomes to long, it can be broken into multiple lines, with "\" at the end of line 
indicating that the current line continues to the next. 

1. Top panel buttons:

Load, 
load the event list file.

Save, 
save the current setting in a new event list file

Cancel, 
cancel the current isis job

Quit, 
quit cxrs.

2. Bottom panel buttons:

Reset, 
reset the event list file. do this when the file has changed.

MkHist, 
make histograms from event files. The binning is given by the option VBin, 
a comma separated list contain binsize, min, max, rebinfactor, where rebin
factor is an integer to rebin the spectra before calibration. The PH column
or Volts column may be used for making the histogram, and it is controled by
the option CEvent, whose 1st field is not used by MkHist, the 2nd field indicates
whether PH or Volts should be used for MkHist. 0 for Volts,  1 for PH.

Calib,
do calibration. Options involved:
DRange, data segments in the reference pixel scale.
PRange, plotting range. min, max, nplots, text_position.
IRange, ignored segments. use 0 if including everything.
Contrl, use 0.0
Scale, the smoothing scale before alignment.
Files created:
In each hist dir., calib1d.coef, calibration coeff. calib1d.ps, PS plots, 
calib1d.tsp, the total spectra in this dir. calibxd.coef, calibxd.ps, 
and calibxd.tsp counterparts for the cross directory calibration.

AddSp,
add the calibrated spectra in reference pixel scale, create a file in 
the top dir, HDir.tsp.

PrepL,
prepare calibration line list. The option FPrep give the file name prefix for
the list. It may contain 1 or 2 fields. With two fields, one assumes the lines 
are from Ln and Kn series. First chose Ln, then Kn lines. Always start with Lalpha 
and W line. 

FitSp,
fit the calibration lines. It takes line list from FPrep option. FFit may have 1, 2
or 3 fields. If fitting k-shell spectra, the first field must be the atomic symbol.
If fitting voltages, the first field is "volts". The 2nd field is a number, giving
the FWHM of the lines. The fitted lines are written to a file HDirID.lno, where ID
is giving by the 3rd field of FFit, if exists, otherwise, the file is HDir.lno.
The 2nd field of FFit maybe < 0, in which case, no fitting is performed, the lines
given in FPrep files are converted to energy using the polynomial coeff. given by
the option FPoly. If there is only one field in FFit or if the 2nd field is 0.0
then the FWHM is requested by cursors before the fit.

MergeL,
After several calibration spectra are fit, the lines are saved in different files.
MergeL merges these different line lists into a single file. The file name is 
given by the FLine option. It needs the FMerge option to specify what line lists
to merge. The HDir corresponding to each line list is a field in FMerge. After the
list of HDir, a minimum number of count is given so that only lines have more 
counts than that number will be selected. Following that number, an optional list
of file name suffixes can be given, so that the individual line list file names 
are given by HDirSuffix.lno, which are the results of FitSp. 

TabV,
Tabulate the volts corresponding the calibration lines for individual pixels.
It takes the merged line list generated by MergeL, translate the calibrated 
volts back to the uncalibrated ones for each pixel. The results are saved in 
FPoly.vts. Make sure to examine the merged line list first, remove all unwanted 
lines by commenting them out with # at the beginning of the line. 

CPoly,
Combined polynomial coefficients for the calibration. It takes the volts from the
output of TabV, fit an NPoly degree polynormial to Volts-Energy, and
save the polynomial coefficients in the file given by FPoly.cpc. Make sure to 
examing the FPoly.vts first, remove unwanted lines for any pixel by commenting 
out with # at the beginning of the line. Also ensure that NPoly is less than the 
number of calibration lines. A PS file called FPoly.ps is written in the top dir.
which summarizes the fit quality.

MergeP,
Merge the polynomial coefficients from separete runs for different pixels into 
a single file. It takes the parameter from FPoly, which is a comma separated list
of strings. The first element is the output file prefix for the coefficients, the
remaining are the coeffient files to be merged.

APoly,
Apply the polynomial generated by CPoly to the voltage histograms, generate
calibrated spectra. Spectrum for individual pixels in individual histogram dir. 
are given in files ch##.txt, where ## is the pixel number. The sum of all pixels
for each dir. is given in ch.tsp in that directory. Finally, the total spectrum for
all dir. is given in HDir.csp in the top directory. Only pixels that are selected 
in the pixel list are gain corrected and summed.

PltSp,
This can be used to examine spectrum on an ISIS window. It takes the spectrum from
the option FPlot.

DCorr,
drift-correct the event files. A calibration polynomial must have been generated
already on the uncorrected data, with polynomial coefficients given by FPoly.cpc
file. The NDCorr option gives 3 numbers. The 1st is the total number of counts in 
all pixels for each time bin. If the 2nd number is not 0, then a coarser time grid
is generated for each pixel, so that each bin have the minimum number of counts
given by this number, and the drift correction is carried out for individual pixels
on this coarse time grid. If the 2nd number is 0, then the drift correction for
all pixels are assumed to be the same. It appears that the 2nd field should always
be set to 0 to achiev good drift correction. The 3rd number in NDCorr is an 
identifier (ID) for the drift correction session, it is later used to merge drift
correction coefficients. The drift correction coefficients for n-th event file is
given in the file HDir.dccID.n, where ID is the identifier given in the last 
field of NDCorr, and n is the event file index.

MergeD, 
Multiple drift correction can be done on several data sets. This is the case when
one does calibration at the begining and end of the day, and take data in between.
One can drift correct both calibration and data separately, given them different 
identifiers. MergeD is then used to merge the resulting coefficients to for a 
single set of drift correction. The list to merge is given by the DMerge option,
which is a list of drift correction coefficient files, including the identifier,
but not the event index. Each drift correct session must have the same number of
event files, and the merge is done for corresponding event files. The merged
drift correction coefficients are saved in the file FDCorr.

ApplyD,
Apply the drift correction to the event files, and write the new data in the
eventfilenameEXT, where EXT is given by the first field of ADCorr option. The
ADCorr option can contain 3 more numbers. The 1st indicate whether the drift 
correction coefficient should be applied (it is sometimes useful to generate a 
new event file without drift correction applied). The 2nd number indicate whether
the event filters specified in the event list file should be applied, and the last
number indicate whether a new event file should be written.

CEvent,
Generate calibrated event file. It takes the polynomial coefficients from FPoly.cpc
file, write a new event file with calibrated volts or energies. The new event file
is eventfilenameEXT, where EXT is given by the first field of CEvent option. The
2nd field of CEvent indicate whether the PH or the Volts column should be used in
calibration. This number is also used in MkHist and ApplyD, and it must be 
consistent through out the calibration session. You cannot calibrate the volts 
column, and then apply the calibration to the PH column.

MEvent,
Merge multiple event files into a single one. This is useful when the drift between
different days can be ignored, and single day does not provide enough statistics.
The data from different days can then be merged into a single event file before
calibrating. It takes the 3rd argument in CEvent as the output event file name.

3. Summary of options, and where they are used:

HDir, 
the identifier of the calibration session. Histogram directories are 
generated as HDir##t**, where ## is the event file index, and ** is the time
sequence in one event file. If the event file is not split, which is normally
the case, then ** is always 00. This option is used by all calibration tasks.

VBin,
the volts bin options for MkHist. "binsize,vmin,vmax,rebinfactor". If the PH
column is being calibrated, they represent the binning option for PH. 

EBin,
the calibrated energy binning option when creating calibrated spectra in APoly.
binsize,emin,emax

DRange, PRange, IRange, Contrl, 
controls the calbiration procedure, used in Calib.

FPrep, 
line list file for PrepL.

FFit,
parameters for FitSp.

FMerge,
line list to be merged in MergeL.

FLine,
the merged line list file name in MergeL

FPoly,
the volts and polynomial coefficients file generated by TabV and CPoly. It is then 
used by MergeP, APoly, DCorr, and CEvent.

NPoly,
the order of polynomial in CPoly

FPlot,
the spectrum file to be plotted in PltSp.

DMerge,
the drift correction list in MergeD.

FDCorr,
the merged drift correction generated by MergeD, which is then used in ApplyD.

NDCorr,
the number of counts for generating time grid in DCorr. Usually "500,0,0". 
The last number is the ID.

ADCorr,
the extension name of the drift corrected event file, followed by three numbers
indicate whether to apply drift correct, event filter, and whehter to write a new
event file. Used in ApplyD.

CEvent,
the extension name of the calibrated event file, followed by a number, 0 or 1, to
indicate whether the PH column is used instead of the Volts column. It can also 
contain a erd argument, which gives the output event file name for the MEvent.
It is used by MkHist, ADCorr, CEvent, and MEvent.

4. The use of zoom functions in the ISIS plot window.

The degree of interactive functions is quite limited. In an ISIS plot window, 
type "z" to enter the zoom mode. When in zoom mode, the word "ZOOM" is written
in the top-left corner of the plot window. Use mouse to select a rectagular for
the area to zoom in. While in zoom mode, type "r" to restore to the original plot
limits, type "q" to quit out of the zoom mode. In the PltSp window, while not 
in zoom mode, click of mouse give the data coordinates in the top right corner. 
type a number to collapse the spectrum by a factor. 

5. Pick lines in PrepL,

In the PrepL window, you can only pick line outside the zoom mode. Use zoom to 
focus in a particular region, then quit zoom, pick lines, enter zoom by typing 
"z", then type "r" to restore to the original limit, and use mouse to zoom in 
to another region, quit zoom again to pick new lines. This process can be repeated.

6. Choose time and volts regions for drift correction.

When the UTime-Volts window pops up in DCorr. First choose the volts region. 
Always start from the low volts region. Draw a rectagular around the line where
drift correction will be computed. Make sure the volts range is large enough to 
contain the line for all UTime. Once the volts region is done, chose UTime bin. 
The first rectangular that has the smaller volts value in the bottom left corner 
than the previous volts box signifies the beginning of UTime selection. Only select
UTime regions where the drift-correct line is present.

7. Examing the qualit of calibration line fit and drift correction.
After FitSp and DCorr, the window doesn't disappear. You can zoom in particular
region to examine the quality. Quit zoom, and type "q" to get rid of the window.

